# Crowdfunding
What makes a successful crowdfund?: Exploring maximising potential in UK based crowdfunding. Meg Houghton Gilmour. Kindle Edition.
Key Messages:
1.	Factors that determine whether a project achieves its goal are including: the platform it is presented on, the social media strategies supporting it, the rewards offered and the video introducing the project. 
2.	According to their website, the overall Kickstarter success rate is 36.38% (kickstarter.com, 2016)
3.	According to Google trends, Kickstarter gets an average of 4 times more hits on Google worldwide daily than it’s leading competitor, Indiegogo. 
4.	If a project is featured as a staff pick on Kickstarter, it is up to 42% more likely to be successful. (Mollick via inc.com, 2014); Indiegogo also feature staff picks, boosting the likelihood of a project succeeding, however the effect is less dramatic than on the Kickstarter homepage because Kickstarter has a much bigger audience. 
5.	It is certain that the “all or nothing” mentality is more successful in raising capital. Overall the all or nothing option is more likely to result in success. 
6.	It is evident that the regularity of these updates influences the likelihood of success.  Provide updates to proejcts soon after launching them, lack of the early update reduces the chance of success by just over 13% (Mollick, 2014) 
7.	Keeping audiences informed via social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter is essential to attracting backers
8.	Social media us useless if the product is not original, if it is aimed at the wrong market of if the rewards are equally uninteresting. 
9.	One way of generating a buzz around a project via word of mouth or on social media is by holding a launch event. However creators must take care to ensure that the money and time it costs is a worthwhile investment. 
10.	Video: less than 3 mins 
11.	The success of a crowdfunding campaign depends on the ability of the creators to engage with the audience so that potential backers are excited about the project and are convinced of the compelling reason to invest in the project. 
